# Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

# Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. You'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.


# Project Datasets
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. 

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. 

# Files

**1-etl.py: This script once executed retrieves the song and log data in the s3 bucket, transforms the data into fact and dimensional tables then loads the table data back into s3 as parquet files.**

**2-dl.cfg: Will contain your AWS keys..**

# Run Scripts
Set environment variables AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY.

$ python etl.py
